[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Aztlan.
According to legend,
this was the home
and the creation
of a people called
the Mexica, otherwise
known as the Aztecs
in our history books.
This legendary home
has been mentioned
in several ethnohistorical
sources that were taken
from ancient Aztec priests.
It depicts lists of
different tribal groups
that lived with
the Aztecs, as well
as a very significant migration
from Aztlan to central Mexico.
If this place
existed, this might
suggest that the
Aztecs were part
of a very ancient civilization
thousands of years
before they came
into power in Mexico.
The trail of breadcrumbs
begins at arguably the time
of Atlantis.
>> The Mexica, or Aztecs,
have various traditions about
their point of origin and
about the timing of this event.
Some of them have
no dates at all
and probably go back
many, many thousands
of years, arguably even
to the time of Atlantis
11,500 years ago.
>> If we go back about
11,000 years ago,
we're talking about a time
of an enormous flood suddenly
overwhelmed the Earth,
huge catastrophe.
There was fire that
came down from the sky,
parts of a meteorite
crashed upon the Earth.
And this changed the whole
structure of the Earth
as we know it today.
We're talking about a huge
story of multiple nations
who survived in small numbers
this huge catastrophe 11,000
years ago and then populated
the tribes that we know today--
so the Anasazi, the Hopi,
the Navajo, the Aztec, who
then became the Meshika.
All of these peoples
are little sort
of crumbs of original
people that survived a very
ancient catastrophe.
>> Could a cataclysm 11,000
years ago have spurred
a migration of mass proportions
that separated these tribes
into different areas?
The legend of the
Aztecs suggests
that their people began their
journey from a red canyon
with four rivers.
Dr. Cecilio Orozco of California
State University, Fresno
set out to confirm the
actual location of Aztlan.
On March 24, 1990,
Dr. Orozco published
an astonishing conclusion.
By cross-referencing the
description of the land where
the Mexica came from, Orozco was
able to pinpoint the location
of their homeland--
Utah, more
specifically, the Four
Corners region, where the
borders of Utah, Arizona,
Colorado and New
Mexico all converge.
>> He came across a
glyph that was a dead-on,
perfect representation of
an Aztec glyph that he knew
of that contained a
mathematical code.
And that mathematical code
alludes to the Venusian cycle,
the cycle of Venus.
Because of that, he decided
that the Four Corners area
must be their place of origin.
The Nahua people, which is
where the Aztecs came from,
also claim that they came from a
place of the four great waters.
Well, in the Four Corner region,
you have the four great waters.
You have the Green River
coming out of Wyoming,
the Colorado River coming out
of Colorado, the San Juan River.
With the three main
rivers and the mixing
together, that's the
four great waters
that they were discussing.
>> When people started trying to
understand what was the source
of the Aztecs, the Mayans,
the Anasazi, the Hopi,
were they related, were
there different streams,
one of the interesting parts of
this was the mythology behind
the Aztecs, that their origin
source was a place where there
were four rivers
that intersected.
>> If there are several tribes
reported to be from this
ancient area, does this also
mean they originated from
the same knowledge?
There was another
interesting clue
that Dr. Orozco
and his team found.
They suggested
that these symbols
represented the Venusian
cycle and are also
connected to one of the
Aztec gods, Quetzalcoatl.
>> Quetzalcoatl was the
astrological equivalent
of Venus.
And when you study
ancient cultures,
the movements of
Venus are extremely
important for not only
the planting of crops,
but they could tell
the cycles of time
from the movements of Venus.
The movements of
Venus around our star
is so precise that
you can literally
time everything by them
in a society or a culture.
And when you look at the
ancient Egyptian culture
and the Sumerian culture,
the movements of Venus
always take on an
extremely important role.
>> So, it's highly
probable that yes,
there are certain symbols in
certain caves around Utah that
do specifically tie-in with
a lot of the Mayan calendars,
a lot of their images
of Quetzalcoatl,
one of their
central god figures.
But at the same
time, these symbols
are also shared by
other cultures as well.
So, they're not just inherent
in the Aztec culture.
They're also shared by
the Anasazi and the Hopi,
the Navajo, the
Apache, and so forth.
>> Is Quetzalcoatl the missing
link in the mystery of Aztlan?
And could his
symbol be universal
in the lineage of all the
different civilizations
of ancient America and
possibly ancient Sumer?
Author Anton Parks
believes Quetzalcoatl
could have an ancient link
to the Sumerian god Enki.
Based on his research,
he discovered
that Enki left Sumer
and resided in Egypt.
When he came to Egypt,
he became Osiris.
According to the Egyptian
Book of the Dead,
Osiris was then killed by Set
and resurrected by his wife
Isis as the son Horus.
Horus then revenges
his father's death.
>> [SPEAKING FRENCH]
>> In some Sumerian texts,
but also in Egyptian ones,
Horus takes advantage of
the fact that Venus appears
in the sky to start the fight.
That is interesting, because
the link between Horus and Venus
is quite clear.
Horus manages to defeat
Set in an epic battle.
When Horus finally
defeats Set, he completely
disappears from Egyptian texts.
I think that I found his
trace in America near Mexico
under the name Quetzalcoatl.
I think that he wanted to leave
the Sumerian and Egyptian gods'
heavy atmosphere to
create his own community,
where he will be
called Quetzalcoatl.
We also find traces of
him a little further down,
such as in Peru, under
the name Viracocha.
I believe when he
flees to America,
he isolates himself,
he transforms
into this wise character, has
a whole community around him,
and he calls himself
Quetzalcoatl.
>> Among the Aztecs, whose
beliefs are the best documented
in many historical sources,
Quetzalcoatl was related
to gods of the wind, of the
planet Venus, of the dawn,
and of crafts and knowledge.
>> Quetzalcoatl, the plumed
serpent, the feathered serpent,
is the civilizer deity of
ancient Central America.
He's remembered most
for that, for bringing
the gifts of civilization,
and for teaching
a doctrine of peace and love.
>> Quetzalcoatl essentially
becomes a father figure
to humanity.
He shows people how to
do things properly--
how to build temples,
how to navigate,
how to basically set
the motions in life that
create a fundamental basis
from which you can adapt a very
civilized lifestyle.
>> The earliest iconographic
depiction of the deity is
believed to be found on Stela
19 at the Olmec site of La Venta
depicting a serpent rising
up behind a person probably
engaged in a shamanic ritual.
This depiction is believed to
have been made around 900 BC.
>> His teachings
oppose human sacrifice.
And he seeks to teach
humanity, you must not
kill fellow human beings.
That's a terrible crime.
If you want to sacrifice,
sacrifice flowers,
sacrifice fruits.
This is the peaceful
and beautiful teaching
of Quetzalcoatl.
And it's fascinating that the
earliest image of Quetzalcoatl
does come from the Olmec
site of La Venta, where
we see this figure that is
called "Man in Serpent,"
where you see the coiled figure
of a serpent with the plume,
with the feathered head,
and within it a man holding
one of those man bags
that we find in Sumer
and we find in Gobekli
Tepe and elsewhere.
>> The idea of Quetzalcoatl
as a serpent being seems to be
apparent in such groups as
the Incas and the Mayans.
Is this more proof
that they all were
influenced by the same god?
How then did the Aztecs twist
the teachings and the wisdom?
Graham Hancock suggests
that according to the legend
another prominent
god then steps in
to drive out
Quetzalcoatl and assume
leadership of the Aztecs.
>> You see, Quetzalcoatl after
performing his civilizing
mission in Central
America, the traditions,
the myths tell us that he
was driven out of the region.
And as he leaves, he
promises that he will return,
that he will return, and
that he will overthrow
the cult of the war god.
>> Who was this usurper?
The war god, Huitzilopochtli.
>> He's a very dark
god, to be honest.
And yet in contrast,
you have Quetzalcoatl.
Now, he's the feathered serpent.
His colors are bright--
blues and greens.
And he was a vegetarian.
And he did all the good things.
He civilized the world.
So it's almost like there's
some kind of dualism going on
between these two gods.
>> Quetzalcoatl's antagonist
is Huitzilopochtli.
You can translate his
name as hummingbird.
We think of hummingbirds as
very sweet little things.
But they are very determined.
And they're very fast.
And they are a perfect symbol
of the manifestation of will--
the ability of a hummingbird
to stay still in one
place with its wings moving
at incredibly high speed.
So, it's perhaps not surprising
that something apparently
pretty, like the
hummingbird, is chosen
as the avatar of the god of war.
>> Where did this god come from?
Could this be
another otherworldly
being inserting itself
into the programming
of the Aztec culture.
Originally, he was
of little importance
before the migration to Mexico.
But after Quetzalcoatl's
departure,
the Aztecs reformed
their religion
and put Huitzilopochtli
at the same level
as Quetzalcoatl,
making him a solar god.
It is Huitzilopochtli that
directed the Aztecs to leave
Aztlan and find a new home.
Huitzilopochtli also left
specific instructions
on how they would
find their new home.
>> When you listen to what
the Aztec elders say today,
was that the leader of the tribe
before they left Aztlan had
a vision.
In the vision, a
god appeared to him
and told him that he had to
travel south with the tribe
till they came across an
eagle sitting on a barb tree
eating a snake.
And eventually, they made
their way into Central America.
And what they found was an
eagle sitting on a cactus.
And it was literally
eating a snake.
And they took that
as a sign of where
they were going to settle.
>> And this is, indeed,
apparently what I saw on this
journey.
They saw this cactus.
They saw the bird.
And in its talents
was the snake.
And this is where I stopped.
And it was in a middle
of lake, an island
in the middle of a lake.
And this is where they built
this great city, which became
the center of the Aztec empire.
>> Built on the fertile
island of Lago de Texcoco,
the great city became
known as Tenochtitlan.
Today, this is the site of
the bustling metropolis Mexico
City.
If the imagery of an
eagle eating a serpent
feels familiar, the symbol is
used today on Mexico's flag.
But could it have a much
more ancient meaning?
Some scholars, like
Jack Cary, believe
this symbol is rooted
in an ancient conflict
between otherworldly forces.
>> Perhaps, it was a time when
the ancient serpent lineage
became lesser than this new
royal bloodline that had
emerged as the Aztec royalty.
>> They continued to
worship the god of war.
And over the next
few hundred years,
their empire thrives,
despite an increase
in bloodshed and the
use of human sacrifice.
>> What's fascinating is that
eventually the Aztecs take
on human sacrifice as a
way of appeasing this god.
They tell us that they were
sacrificing humans in order
to retard the movement of the
Sun into the next zodiac house.
That is the processional
movement of our Sun.
Why they were trying to
retard the movement of the Sun
into the next zodiac house was
because it was this movement
that they equated with being
the mechanism that caused
global calamity on the Earth.
They thought by appeasing
the Sun through human ritual
sacrifice they could slow its
movement down in such a way
that they could avoid the
next global cataclysm.
>> They believed Huitzilopochtli
was in a constant struggle with
the darkness and required
nourishment in the form
of sacrifices to ensure the Sun
would survive the cycle of 52
years, which was the basis
of many a Mesoamerican myths.
>> They sort of somehow began to
misread the ancient teachings--
what the ancient concept
of the gods were there for.
They were as metaphors.
They were there as
teaching aids to help
the individual rise above his or
her own base living situation.
It was about raising
your level of awareness.
What the Aztecs began
to do, which is often
what happens with so
many old cultures,
they began to take
these things literally.
So, when they start looking
at their war god and saying,
I am your war god, in
order for the Aztec to go
on being who they are and go
on surviving for thousands
of years, if you appease
me by doing blood
sacrifices and ritual,
I will make sure
that you're protected
from future darkness.
You will always be
protected from darkness.
The evil spirits will never
come and infiltrate your lives
ever again.
>> I feel that the Aztec were
terrified that their gods had
left them.
And so, this act
of violence, this
killing people and sacrificing
people to appease the gods,
it's a practice that
we've seen in many places
around the planet.
And I feel that they felt
abandoned by everyone.
They were angry about it.
And this was their way
of showing the world
that they were powerful, even
though they were very fearful.
>> But could their fear of
darkness have finally caught up
with them?
Not even their
precious god could
have saved them from what
was about to happen next.
In 1519, a ship
arrives on their shores
and a strange white bearded
man introduces himself.
>> And eventually, Cortes
comes to the Aztec people.
And the only other
time that they
had seen a creature with a beard
was on their god Quetzalcoatl.
And here's a Spaniard wearing a
long beard with amazing armor.
And they were riding these
incredible creatures,
the horses that they
brought with them.
>> When Cortes comes on those
beaches and has a beard and is
white-skinned and hair, so
the people who have been
worshipping and waiting
for Quetzalcoatl,
they transfer their
energies to Cortes.
And Cortes from
Europe is not a god.
>> Led by his faith, the Aztec
emperor Moctezuma initially
greets Cortes and his
conquistadors with open arms.
>> He's thrown into a state
of hysteria by the arrival
of Cortes.
It's fascinating looking at
the documents from the period.
Both the Aztecs and
the conquistadors
kept detailed records.
To gather-- to get a sense of
the state of mind of Moctezuma,
he was a bully.
He was an aggressive,
domineering dictator.
But when he thought he was
facing a returning god,
his knees turned to water.
He ceased to have any courage
or confidence whatsoever.
And Cortes very quickly
learned about this
and took advantage of
it and played upon it
and used it as part of
his psychological game
to overthrow the Aztec
empire and take from them
everything that they had.
Of course, Cortes
was no god of peace.
Cortes was no Quetzalcoatl.
Cortes was only
there for one thing.
He was there to take
everything they had.
He was there to destroy
utterly their culture.
But he took advantage of and
rode upon that myth on his way
in.
And in the first
encounter-- direct encounter
between Moctezuma and Cortes,
this matter is raised directly.
And Moctezuma asks him,
are you truly Quetzalcoatl?
And Cortes actually
says, no, I'm not.
But you see, he was
being clever there,
because the deities of ancient
Mexico were tricksters.
So, that's exactly
what Moctezuma
would expect him to say.
Yes, you are Quetzalcoatl.
Moctezuma did the work
in his own imagination.
It's a very curious and
extraordinary moment
in human history, seen at
the time as the fulfillment
of a prophecy.
But what was it really?
It was the doom--
it was the doom of the ancient
cultures of Central America.
>> What was really at play here?
Was it the belief
in certain gods
as more powerful
than themselves?
Or could the demise of the
Aztec people by Cortes in 1519
have been a battle
for humanity based
on warring
extraterrestrial forces
still at play in our world
thousands of years later?
Could the killing off
of a great civilization
be the last remnants of
ancient knowledge practiced
on the planet?
The evidence of ancient
powers still at work
can be reflected by
an internal search
that the Spanish
priesthood performed.
They were very
concerned with how
this civilization fit into
their understanding of God
and creation.
And they sent missionaries
to Mexico to dissect it.
Could their creation
stories be linked?
These concerns may have
arisen from research documents
like the "Aubin
Codex," which was
compiled by a
Dominican friar named
Diego Doran in the late 1500s.
>> Yes, the discovery
of the "Aubin Codex"
and its resulting translation
showed an extremely close
similarity between the
Sumerian creation stories
and the creation stories
of the Mesoamerica people.
And those creation stories
speak of a pantheon
of gods who ended up creating
man, not a single god,
as was being professed by
the church at that time.
And because of that, a lot of
the information was suppressed.
They saw such close
similarities between the two,
that to a lot of them, it
sort of scared them and said,
oh my gosh, when people
see the similarities,
they're going to
think, well, mankind
was created by these
creature, by the Anunnaki,
by the serpent gods, and
not by the one true God
in Christianity.
>> What would happen to the
belief systems of the world
if we realized we came
from the same creation?
And even more disturbing,
what if these belief systems
were being used by warring
races for their own agenda.
>> One of the most shocking
discussions I ever had
in my professional career
was in New York City in 1984.
And I got a phone call at my
office one day from a man.
And we had a discussion about
the ancient civilizations
on Earth, including
the Garden of Eden,
that had nothing to do
with Homo sapiens sapiens.
It all had to do with
extraterrestrials
and extraterrestrials
that were in war.
And I was shocked at
the level and depth
at which this man
told me details, tying
our ancient civilization
to extraterrestrials
who warred with each other
and that we ourselves
may be concerned about
the return of any of them.
>> If this is true, is there
more evidence of a secret
agenda in the research
these priests did?
More intriguing parallels can
be found in a Spanish research
document written
by Friar Bernardino
Sahagun during the 1500s.
Known as the
"Florentine Codex," it
also details the history
and culture of the Aztecs
based on decades of research
compiled by Sahagun.
The document reached some
startling conclusions,
so startling, in fact,
that the "Florentine Codex"
was never published.
>> Let's put this into context.
We're in the middle of the
Medieval era in Europe.
So, we have a culture that's
based on plunder, destruction,
and the complete subjugation by
a particular religious order.
From this culture emerges
a group of Spanish people
who ride all the way
across the Atlantic,
they land in Central America.
And they are totally amazed
to find that these supposed
morons and barbarians-- and they
were barbarians, by the way.
I mean, human sacrifice is
not an enlightening thing.
But they found, quite
to their amazement,
that their stories
and their myths
actually sounded very much
like the stuff that was already
in the Bible, which,
back in Europe
was the high point
of civilization.
So, they began to write
these things down.
And the more they
wrote and the more they
listened to the
Aztecs, the more they
realized that their myth
really preceded Christianity.
Now we have a problem.
Because when you start
describing the god
Quetzalcoatl, who basically
was born of a virgin in a cave,
he goes AWOL for 40 days
into the wilderness,
goes on top of a sacred
hill, preaches religion
to the masses, then is mailed
figuratively to a cross,
not literally, gets
out three days later
after he crosses into the
other world around the 21st
of December and is
resurrected as a god-man,
after which is
deified as a hero,
that story was already around.
So, being a priest in
the middle of all this,
I would've gone, oh,
dear, oh, Susanna, we
have a bit of a
problem, Houston.
Because now it means that
everything that's in the Bible,
everything that we've
been worshipping in Europe
is actually much, much older.
So, they put one and one
together, and they realized,
my god, this stuff is almost
like what the Sumerians was
saying in 3,000 BCE.
>> The Codex is
presented to the church.
But predictably, they wanted
nothing to do with it.
>> It's only today, we're
beginning to realize that
the Old World, as we called it,
was actually much more ahead
than what Europe was
professing at the time.
>> Could the ancient knowledge
from Quetzalcoatl have been
given to the Aztecs?
If so, did the Aztecs
pervert this knowledge?
And could another
influence have stepped
in, disguised as the
war god Huitzilopochtli?
If this is true,
is this more proof
that the demise of the Aztecs
might have been played out
by a supernatural and
otherworldly force left behind
by these gods?
>> We have to ask ourself, is it
possible that these two beings
who allegedly came from
the stars are actually two
otherworldly beings in conflict?
Is it possible
that we're looking
at two creatures who were not
friendly towards each other?
Is it possible
that we're actually
looking at two different deities
or two different otherworldly
beings?
In my opinion, and
if we take a look
at ancient texts and
mythology and everything
the ancient Aztecs and Mayans
left behind, the answer is yes.
>> A possible takeaway from
the destruction of these people
and their culture could be
that there are greater forces
on Earth battling
behind the scenes,
manipulating our societies
and turning them against each
other.
Could the need for Quetzalcoatl
and his ancient lineage
have become extinct
at some point?
And could the fear
of the unknown
have invited another type
of otherworldly force
on this planet?
If we are always waiting
for a new force to guide us,
like the arrival of
Cortes seen as a god,
are we missing the
human potential
to create a new world
by the understanding
that we are all connected
to the same creation?
If we return to
ancient lineages,
like the legend of Aztlan,
do we find more answers?
Experts like Freddy Silva
point to a connection
to a star system that
has infiltrated almost
all ancient civilizations.
>> In terms of the connection to
Sirius is the fact that Sirius
was always regarded as a source
of wisdom, of high wisdom.
Whether it was brought
here through shamanic means
or by actual physical beings
that came here from Sirius,
that's another matter.
I think both lines of
inquiry are actually true.
>> Could there be an even
more ancient lineage trying
to change the human code?
Up next, we trace the Sirius
connection from a tribe in Mali
to the mystery schools of Egypt.